The neverending story.

Human passions have mysterious ways, in children as well as grown-ups.
Those affected by them can't explain them, and those who haven't known them have no understanding of them at all.
Some people risk their lives to conquer a mountain peak. No one, not even they themselves, can really explain why.
Others ruin themselves trying to win the heart of a certain person who wants nothing to do with them.
Still others are destroyed by their devotion to the pleasures of the table.
Some are so bent on winning a game of chance that they lose everything they own, and some sacrifice every thing for a dream that can never come true.
Some think their only hope of happiness lies in being somewhere else, and spend their whole lives traveling from place to place.
And some find no rest until they have become powerful.
In short, there are as many different passions as there are people.

- Prologue


The sphinxes shut their eyes for some travelers and let them through.
The question that no one has answered up until now is this: Why one traveler and not another?
Because you mustn't suppose they let wise, brave, or good people through, and keep the stupid, cowardly, and wicked out.
Not a bit of it! With my own eyes I've seen them admit stupid fools and treacherous knaves, while decent, sensible people have given up after being kept waiting for months.
And it seems to make no difference whether a person has some serious reason for consulting the Oracle, or whether he's just come for the fun of it.

- Engywook, in Ch. VI : The Three Magic Gates


Slowly the boy without a name reached for the gold chain around his neck and divested himself of AURYN.
He bent down and carefully laid the Gem in the snow before Atreyu.
As he did so, he took another look at the two snakes, the one light, the other dark, which were biting each other's tail and formed an oval.
Then he let the amulet go.
In that moment AURYN, the golden Gem, became so bright, so radiant that he had to close his eyes as though dazzled by the sun.
When he opened them again, he saw that he was in a vaulted building, as large as the vault of the sky.
It was built from blocks of golden light.
And in the middle of this immeasurable space lay, as big as the ramparts of a town, the two snakes.

- Ch. XXVI : The Water of Life
